Please fill the fields in brackets below, and please do not modify the rest of the template.



*** Efficient Verification of Fault Injection Attack Protections at Binary Level

  Yanis Sellami (CEA List, Université Paris-Saclay)
  Noémie Bénard (CEA List, Université Paris-Saclay)
  Frédéric Recoules (CEA List, Université Paris-Saclay)
  Sébastien Bardin (CEA List, Université Paris-Saclay)

*Abstract*.
Fault injection attacks use a physical perturbation on the system running a program to obtain an adversarial effect, leading to an execution that does not exist in the semantic of the original program. High-security components, particularly on protected embedded systems, must provide some level of countermeasures against such attacks.
In order to evaluate the quality of these countermeasures, one solution is to analyze the programs running on the system to detect vulnerabilities to possible fault attacks. We think that designing software level analyses that are made aware of the microarchitectural effects needed to represent the investigated fault attacks is an ideal analysis level to compromise usefulness and efficiency.
Previous work for Ducousso et. al. has demonstrated that we can construct efficient binary-level formal analyzer to detect fault injection attacks in protected software, including in the WooKey bootloader. However, this work was limited to value fault injection and test inversions, and deeply interleaved with the core of the underlying symbolic execution analyzer. 
We aim to extend this work to design a more parametric and extensible fault-injection aware binary-level symbolic execution.
We propose to leverage the newest plugin mechanism of Binsec, a binary-level symbolic execution engine developped at CEA List, to design an adversarial symbolic execution analysis able to handle efficiently both value faults and control-flow faults for transient, persistent and permanent scenarios.
We present the architecture that permits this implementation and the additional benefits we can leverage from it.
As a validation, we have used this implementation to verify the correct application of hardening strategies against fault injection attacks, including the hardening of CompCert and the CompaSec countermeasure against instruction skips.

*Bio*.
Yanis Sellami est chercheur au CEA/List LSL, où il travaille sur le moteur d'exécution symbolique Binsec dans le contexte des attaques par injections de fautes, canaux cachés, et sur l'utilisation des techniques d'abduction. Il travaillait au préalable au CEA/List LFIM sur la caractérisation automatique des vulnérabilités aux attaques par injection de fautes, et a obtenu sa Thèse à l'Université Grenoble-Alpes, sous la supervision de N. Peltier et M. Echenim, sur les algorithmes d'abduction. Ses intérêts de recherche incluent la vérification formelle de programmes, l'exécution symbolique, les attaques en fautes et microarchitecturales et les applications de la logique à l'analyse de programme.
